[MUSIC]
>> Michael: So the first thing
we need to do is when we look at
the instructions here,
let me bring this up real quick.
So when we consider
transitioning from orgs to
org/emberjs which is the name
of that route is called org,
we have to consider what are we pivoting
on in this hierarchy of routes?
And in this case,
it is going to be the application route.
And so the place we're going
to put our loading.hbs file
is right in the templates folder.
So I'm gonna start by doing that.
So it's this and I'm just gonna create
a new file called loading.hbs and
we'll start with loading...and
we'll transition in.
>> Michael: I'm actually gonna add
a little weight on the route just so
that we can see what's going on here.
>> Michael: All right, so
I've added two seconds of extra
weight to this API request and
we can see that as we drill in.
Let's refresh here.
So we get this loading state here.
Make sure that still works.
>> Michael: Something's
still odd [LAUGH] here.
>> Michael: It is,
maybe I didn't save here let's see.
Back to the list of orgs.
I think I know what's happening here,
I think that the actual
weight we're looking for, so
I may have gotten the pivot wrong here.
Let me move this and
see if it makes a difference.
Move it into the org folder.
>> Michael: Man, this example just
does not want to work with me.
I'm gonna actually move on to
the error substate here because that's
a little bit more interesting.
So the way to test this is to add
something to your URL because
we're building our API request URL,
we're deriving it
from the params that are passed
through dynamic segments.
So I'm gonna add something
to make this invalid.
There's my loading state there of course,
[LAUGH] and
you can see that GitHub is
giving me a 404, right, and
what's happening is we're
throwing an error under the hood.
This is bubbling all the way up to
the application level error substate.
We have no template there for
that error substate.
And so we're going to kind of just throw
our hands up and make the screen blank.
We can improve that first.
>> Michael: And I'm gonna take off
my network link here.
All right, so
now we're in the error substate and
we can put a debugger here
to explore what's available to us,
and the way you
look at what's available in terms of data
in your template is you look at context.
[SOUND] And if you look at the code
like where the break point is you can
see that that's sort of what's pulled out.
That's one of the things passed to
handle bars as you're rendering.
You have this context available here,
right, so
it's sort of the scope
available to this template.
And in this case,
we have this thing called Model and
we can get a status, status text.
So I'm gonna actually render that here.
>> Speaker 2: Where is that template?
Is that your application level?
>> Michael: Application level error.HBS
>> Michael: All right,
so we've got error not found.
We wanna handle this specifically though.
We wanna handle this particular
error in a particular way.
So I'm gonna go back
to this route here and
I'm gonna add an action called error.
>> Michael: And
I'll just put a debugger there for now.
So we can make sure it's hit and
see what's going on.
Fantastic.
And if we examine this argument,
we can see that there is a status,
and it's 404.
So in this case,
>> Michael: I
want to intermediateTransitionTo, and
I'm just gonna call it org.notfound.
It's a route that does not yet exist but
that's cool, I'll create it later.
And then otherwise I'm gonna return
true which is, which means what?
Bubble up.
>> Michael: So I'm gonna kick
that to Ember CLI, ember g route
org/notfound
>> Michael: And
now this route should exist.
>> Michael: So you can see,
we're seeing something different here.
We're actually seeing this back to
the list of orgs part of the template.
>> Speaker 2: So what is the intermediate
transition 2 versus transition 202?
>> Michael: So, intermediate
transition 2 is designed to take you to
a state that is not mapped to URL.
You can see that my URL here is
actually still, it's still the bad URL.
>> Speaker 2: Got it.
>> Michael: And-
>> Speaker 2: Is that so
that it doesn't replace where the route so
that you can go back to
it later if you need to?
>> Michael: In this case I'd wanna
know exactly what happened, right?
So in this case,
>> Michael: Imagine that we took you to
a different URL, right?
We went to slash org slash not found and
then you hit the back button,
what's going to happen?
>> Speaker 2: You go back to the not
found thing and move it back up.
>> Michael: Yes.
So you're gonna go and
try to load it again and
then kick out to not found.
And then hit the back button and
you'll be sort of caught in a loop.
Here, I would just need to
really change something and
then I'll be in a better state.
I don't know why my loading substate
is totally cooperating now, but.
>> Speaker 2: Someone said they got
it working with org-loading.hbs.
>> Michael: Let's try that.
>> Michael: So
we'll rename this to org-loading.
>> Michael: Fantastic, I can see that
it's working even though it's super fast.
>> Speaker 2: Why are you
changing the name?
>> Michael: It's apparently
a new convention in 2.2.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: I got it working on-
>> Speaker 3: That's good though because
you know what the problem is when you look
at all the filenames across the top of
your editor, you don't know
where you are most of the time.
>> Speaker 2: Unless
your editor tells you.
>> Michael: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Michael: I'm gonna
keep plugging away here.
So, I want to customize this
not found template in org.
>> Michael: Let's see.
Here it is.
Org not found.
>> Michael: Okay, so what we've
done here is we've transitioned to
a specific state for the notfound case.
Now I'm gonna prove that this works by
messing up that little token
we started using yesterday.
I'm gonna actually delete one
character off of it which will throw
an authentication error.
It's a different kind of error.
And that should bubble
us up to unauthorized.
So here we're showing that we
can catch the not found error,
sorta within the context of
looking up an org, right,
that is the kind of error that's
very useful to surface to the user,
because they can just fix their URL,
or something.
Maybe the GitHub org has been renamed.
Could be.
And then this kind of error,
you kind of have to catch it
with some over-arching thing.
>> Michael: And in terms of spinkit,
I'll just show you how typically do this.
You could bring in via bower,
but this is so
small that I just would drop it here,
drop in the css,
drop this into your loading,
and can throttle my network again.
>> Michael: And you see we get
a little fancy loading thing.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Michael: Yeah,
there is an add on for that.
>> Michael: So, this is my, let me
make sure I cover all the bases here,
yep, so this is the completed Exercise #5.
I will commit this push it up, questions?
>> Speaker 4: Question, hey,
man where would you put the AR.HPS
that handles a wrong URL?
>> Michael: What kind of wrong URL?
>> Speaker 4: So
the example is like org/badname.
>> Michael: So I think we already
have something that will handle that.
I think we've already done that.
So if we do something like this.
>> Speaker 4: He said this one
only works for org/badname.
So maybe he's talking about
more of like a global one?
>> Michael: Yeah, so we have some
global one that we added as part
of when we were talking about
different kinds of segments,
like dynamic segments
versus star segments.
If we look at our router,
we've got this notfound catch-all here.
So in this case we're handling
all routes that don't match something
specific in a particular way.
This is different than getting a 404
from an API because we're talking about
client-side routes versus I have looked up
an entity and I cannot find this thing.
So I think we actually
handle both of those cases.
The only thing that is making
this a little confusing
is, no, this should actually work.
Is there a specific URL
that he was talking about?
>> Speaker 3: If you
look at chat [INAUDIBLE].
>> Michael: Only works for org/badname.
So it'll actually work for
any descendent of that route as well but
remember that the error handling we put
in place is for pivots on that route.
Right, that's where our specific
error handling happens.
If we're pivoting on something else,
the action is not going
to fire on that particular route and it'll
just bubble up straight to application.
>> Speaker 2: But,
children is bubble up and get caught.
So, the 404 on the repo
gets caught by the.
>> Michael: Yes, totally, but
if we were dealing with the orgs list,
which has nothing,
the route org is not active in that case.
We have no specific handling for
a 404 there.
And so, this is something
that you might want to extend
Ember.route to make your own
base class if this is something you wanna
handle consistently in a generic way.
But in this case, we are limited
to only the specific case, but
that was kind of the idea giving you
guys guidance as to how you can catch
something particular because the general
stuff is easy to just do an application.